Upon loading the website, the user is given three choices: New game, Continue Game, and Game Configuration. If the user has not played a game yet, New Game will import the map file from the server storage and store it in a local file in their browser. Once the user has played a bit, pressing the exit game button will save the current progress of the game in a separate file. After the save file has been created, the Continue Game will add the map with the progress the user made in past sessions of playing the game. In the Main Menu, we included a mini-game called “Game Configuration” that drops a fun little banner which the user has to hit the cancel button on to remove it from your screen (it’s the extra little things that make good games great).

Once in-game, the glorious melodies of the Pokemon bike scene(?) plays, adding to the already immersive game play. With initial in-game load, the user has the choice of making the map smaller or larger via the magnifying glasses in the top left corner (and given some user’s age, maybe the larger the better ;) ). Below the map and above the “Exit Game” button contains all the character’s current information including Current Location, Energy, Whiffles, and Messages (special attributes of the map cell the character is in). The user can choose to navigate through the world of Frupal through directional buttons located near the bottom or they can click on the map and use arrow inputs from the keyboard. The area near the bottom also houses the “Display Inventory” button which displays or removes the display of all the tools the player owns. The inventory constantly updates as the player buys new tools (adding to the inventory) or uses a tool from the inventory (removes from the inventory). Lastly from the initial state, the exit button. Is your partner complaining about the 1000’s of hours you’ve invested in playing Frupal? No worries, just hit the exit button and all progress will be saved to a local file which will be reloaded when Continue Game button is used from the main menu.

To play the game, the user needs only a sense of adventure, a working mouse or keyboard, and about 30 seconds or so of free time to beat the game. The seemingly endless adventures begin in the center of the map where the user sees all the cells within one coordinate value around the hero. The game is played by the player navigating the hero around the map and normally loses 1 energy point per step unless one of the many exciting, special situations is encountered. Boulders, Blackberry Bushes, and Trees are obstacles littered throughout the map, using extra hero energy to remove when the player navigates to the cell containing it. There are lakes of water the hero cannot enter, removing an extra point of energy for the attempt, and bogs which take an extra point of energy to leave. 

To aid the player in the hero’s quest, there are several energy bars randomly inserted in the map, denoted by the lightning bolt, which replenish 20 energy units for 1 whiffle. A multitude of helpful tools are scattered throughout the map including binoculars, which increases the hero’s range the surrounding cells (range one) to the two surrounding cells;  a hatchet, axe, and chainsaw which reduce the amount of energy used to clear trees; a chisel, sledgehammer, and jack hammer which reduce the energy used to remove a boulder; and lastly, a machete and shears which remove the blackberry bushes for a reduced amount of energy. When the cell containing the tools and energy bars (and the pretty rock) are encountered, the user is prompted to buy the item for the designated price. If the player chooses to purchase the tool, the price of the whiffles will be deducted from the player’s whiffles and the item added to the inventory. When the player encounters an obstacle and owns a tool corresponding to that obstacle, the item is removed from the inventory and a lesser amount of energy is removed than if the player had no tools to help in the removal. Two types of treasure chests add to the sense of adventure in the world of Frupal. Type one adds 100 whiffles to the player’s bank while the type 2 chest removes all whiffles from the player’s bank.

If the player somehow manages to lose all of the hero’s energy before finding the royal jewels the game is over, noted by the banner that pops up and the sad sound of failure emanating from your computer’s speakers. If the hero doesn’t have enough energy to remove an obstacle before leaving the cell, the game is over. If the hero moves into a bog with 2 or less energy, the game is over. If any of these actually occur, maybe video games aren’t your thing and you should probably listen to your partner about playing too much. If, however, the royal jewels are discovered, glorious days are upon the land of Frupal! Happiness is spread through the kingdom and sounds of victory are played through the player’s speakers.

That is Team C’s interpretation of the Frupal game and we hope you enjoy it more than all the others so we can get those Starbucks cards.
